cleanup: add info to install and operate guides to improve clarity for adoption in production (#1115)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/docs/install-operate/deployment.md

---
title: Deployment
description: Installing Falco on a Kubernetes Cluster
aliases: [/docs/getting-started/deployment]
weight: 45
---

The guides - [Download](/docs/install-operate/download/), [Install](/docs/install-operate/installation/), [Running](/docs/install-operate/running/) - focused on the systemd service deployment method, detailing how to primarily install and run Falco directly on the host. Additionally, these guides explored the alternative options of installing and running Falco within a container, with a driver installed on the underlying host.

The container deployment option is particularly enticing for Kubernetes settings, which will be discussed in more detail now. 

{{% pageinfo color="info" %}}

> Falco only needs to run once per Linux operating system, irrespective of the deployment strategy, whether on a bare-metal server or a virtual machine (VM). It takes advantage of the shared kernel in containerized infrastructures like Kubernetes through the installation of a kernel driver on the underlying host. Thus, deploying Falco within a container with the driver installed on the host is equivalent to deploying it directly on the Linux host. This allows seamless monitoring of both host and container workloads *without* the need for sidecars.

Author: This is a very very common misconception and point of confusion @nate-double-u if you have even more ideas on how to highlight this would appreciate it!

Reviewer: So installing the drivers on the host is key -- but you still need to install Falco within each container you want monitored?

Or, does this mean that if you install Falco on the bare-metal server, you get monitoring on all the containerized infra "for free."

Author: Glad I asked so it's not yet clear.

> Or, does this mean that if you install Falco on the bare-metal server, you get monitoring on all the containerized infra "for free."

It's the second one.

And often people also think you can ONLY run Falco in Kubernetes and not on a regular host or VM. 
And it does not have to be the bare-metal server, e.g. in EKS, GKS, AKS in fact the "host" is a VM ...

Any text suggestions to clearly convey all these? The current version is not there yet ...

Author: > So installing the drivers on the host is key 

It kind of is the only way it can work. And host for most people as mentioned above in EKS, GKS, AKS is a VM

> Falco only needs to run once per Linux operating system, irrespective of the deployment strategy, whether on a bare-metal server or a virtual machine (VM). It takes advantage of the shared kernel in containerized infrastructures like Kubernetes through the installation of a kernel driver on the underlying host. Thus, deploying Falco within a container with the driver installed on the host is equivalent to deploying it directly on the Linux host. This allows seamless monitoring of both host and container workloads *without* the need for sidecars.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Falco is designed to run once per Linux operating system, regardless of whether the deployment is on a bare-metal server or a virtual machine (VM). It leverages the shared kernel in containerized environments like Kubernetes by installing a kernel driver on the underlying host. This means that deploying Falco within a container, with the kernel driver installed on the host, is functionally equivalent to deploying it directly on the Linux host. This setup allows seamless monitoring of both host and container workloads *without* the need for sidecars.
```

Reviewer: I think it may be the "Once per Linux operating system" that may be tripping us up. You can conceivably have several Linux operating systems running (via VMs), so it may really be that Falco is designed to run once per instance of the kernel?

---
title: Deployment
description: Installing Falco on a Kubernetes Cluster
aliases: [/docs/getting-started/deployment]
weight: 45
---

The guides - [Download](/docs/install-operate/download/), [Install](/docs/install-operate/installation/), [Running](/docs/install-operate/running/) - focused on the systemd service deployment method, detailing how to primarily install and run Falco directly on the host. Additionally, these guides explored the alternative options of installing and running Falco within a container, with a driver installed on the underlying host.

The container deployment option is particularly enticing for Kubernetes settings, which will be discussed in more detail now. 

{{% pageinfo color="info" %}}

> Falco is designed to run once per instance of the Linux kernel, regardless of whether the deployment is on a bare-metal host or a virtual machine (VM). In third-party managed Kubernetes platforms (EKS, GKS, AKS, etc.), the latter option (VM) is prevalent.

Author: @nate-double-u incorporated your suggestions and added a clarifying sentence on top plus formatting enhancements. Mind checking once more if ok? Thanks!

Reviewer: I think that looks good to me 🙂
